minikube version
minikube start
minikube start --extra-config="apiserver.cors-allowed-origins=['http://boot.dev']"
minikube dashboard --port=63840
minikube stop
minikube delete

Deploying an Image

The kubectl create deployment command will create a "deployment" for us. We'll talk more about the nuances of "deployments" later. But to put it simply, we only need to provide two things:

    The name of the deployment (this can be anything, it's used to identify the deployment)
    The ID of the Docker image we want to deploy (it would be a full URL if we weren't hosting the image on Docker Hub, which is the default)

kubectl create deployment synergychat-web --image=docker.io/bootdotdev/synergychat-web:latest

This command will deploy a container built from this Docker image to your local k8s cluster.
kubectl create deployment synergychat-web --image=docker.io/bootdotdev/synergychat-web:latest

kubectl get deployments

kubectl get pods
kubectl port-forward synergychat-web-f7b9f96dd-6jfq4 8080:8080

Minikube runs a single-node cluster, whereas production clusters are multi-node distributed systems.

kubectl edit deployment synergychat-web

kubectl get pods
kubectl logs PODNAME
kubectl delete pod PODNAME
kubectl get pods

Every Pod in a Kubernetes cluster has a unique internal-to-k8s IP address

kubectl get pods -o wide
kubectl proxy
This will start a proxy server on your local machine, probably on 127.0.0.1:8001. Assuming that's the host, navigate to http://127.0.0.1:8001/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods in your browser. 

kubectl get deployment synergychat-web -o yaml

A ReplicaSet maintains a stable set of replica Pods running at any given time. 
kubectl get replicasets

kubectl get deployment synergychat-web -o yaml > web-deployment.yaml
kubectl apply -f web-deployment.yaml
You should get a warning that lets you know that you're missing the last-applied-configuration annotation. That's okay! we got that warning because we created this deployment the quick and dirty way, by using kubectl create deployment instead of creating a YAML file and using kubectl apply -f

Kubernetes is an "infra-as-code" tool, so it's important to keep your configuration files in a git repo.

kubectlapply -f api-configmap.yaml
kubectl get configmaps
sudo chown vaughan:vaughan api-configmap.yaml

Config Maps Are Insecure- not crypotgraphically secure and accessible by anyone on the cluster
use Kubernetes secrets instead 

Crawler

spec:
  containers:
    - image: bootdotdev/synergychat-api:latest
      name: synergychat-api
      env:
        - name: THING_ONE
          valueFrom:
            configMapKeyRef:
              name: synergychat-api-configmap
              key: THING_ONE
        - name: THING_TWO
          valueFrom:
            configMapKeyRef:
              name: synergychat-api-configmap
              key: THING_TWO
        - name: THING_THREE
          ...
verbose use envForm in env's stead

Services
Services provide a stable endpoint for pods.
clusterIP - is the IP address that the service is bound to on the internal Kubernetes network. 
kubectl port-forward service/web-service 8080:80
kubectl get svc web-service -o yaml
"svc" is a short-hand alias for "service", either will work in kubectl.
